234 RICHARD HENRY DANA, JR.

took great pains in correcting my Spanish, and supplying me with
colloquial phrases, and common terms and exclamations in speaking
He lent me a file of late newspapers from the city of Mexico, Whicl;
were full of triumphal receptions of Santa Ana, who had just re-
turned from Tampico after a victory, and with the preparations
for his expedition against the Texans. “Viva Santa Anal” was the
by-word everywhere, and it had even reached California, though
there were still many here, among whom was Don Juan Bandini,
who were opposed to his government, and intriguing to bring in
Bustamente. Santa Ana, they said, was for breaking down the mis.
sions; or, as they termed it—“Santa Ana no quiere religion.” Yet I
had no doubt that theoffice of administrador of San Diego would
reconcile Don Juan to any dynasty, and any state of the church. In
these papers, too, I found scraps of American and English news; but
which were so unconnected, and I was so ignorant of everything
preceding them for eighteen months past, that they only awakened
a curiosity which they could not satisfy. One article spoke of
Taney as Justicia Mayor de los Estados Unidos, (what had become
of Marshall? was he dead, or banished?) and another made known,
by news received from Vera Cruz, that “El Vizconde Melbourne”
had returned to the office of “primer ministro,” in place of Sir
Roberto Peel. (Sir Robert Peel had been minister, then? and where
were Earl Grey and the Duke of Wellington?) Here were the out-
lines of a grand parliamentary overturn, the filling up of which I
could imagine at my leisure.

The second morning after leaving Monterey, we were off Point
Conception. It was a bright, sunny day, and the wind, though
strong, was fair; and everything was in striking contrast with our
experience in the same place two months before, when we were
drifting off from a northwester under a fore and main spencer.
“Sail hol” cried a man who was rigging out a top-gallant studding-
sail boom.—“Where away?”—“Weather beam, sir!” and in a ffew
minutes a full-rigged brig was seen standing out from under Point
Conception. The studding-sail halyards were let go, and the ya'rds
boom-ended, the after yards braced aback, and we waited her coming
down. She rounded to, backed her main topsail, and showed her
decks full of men, four guns on a side, hammock nettings, and
