e

TWO YEARS BEFORE THE MAST 235

everything man-of-war fashion, except that there was no boatswain’s
whistle, and no uniforms on the quarter-deck. A short, square-built
man, in a rough grey jacket, with a speaking-trumpet in hand,
stood in the weather hammock nettings. “Ship ahoy!”—“Hallo}"—
«What ship is that, pray ?"—“Alert.”—“Where are you from, pray?”
etc., etc. She proved to be the brig Convoy, from the Sandwich
Islands, engaged in otter hunting, among the islands which lie along
the coast. Her armament was from her being an illegal trader. The
otter are very numerous among these islands, and being of great
value, the government require a heavy sum for a license to hunt
them, and lay a high duty upon every one shot or carried out of the
country. This vessel had no license, and paid no duty, besides being
engaged in smuggling goods on board other vessels trading on the
coast, and belonging to the same owners in Oahu. Our captain told
him to look out for the Mexicans, but he said they had not an
armed vessel of his size in the whole Pacific. This was without
doubt the same vessel that showed herself off Santa Barbara a few
months before. These vessels frequently remain on the coast for
years, without making port, except at the islands for wood and
water, and an occasional visit to Oahu for a new outfit.

Sunday, January 1oth. Arrived at Santa Barbara, and on the fol-
lowing Wednesday, slipped our cable and went to sea, on account
of a south-easter. Returned to our anchorage the next day. We were
the only vessel in the port. The Pilgrim had passed through the
Canal and hove-to off the town, nearly six weeks before, on her
passage down from Monterey, and was now at the leeward. She
heard here of our safe arrival at San Francisco.

Great preparations were making on shore for the marriage of our
agent, who was to marry Donna Anneta De G— De N—
C—, youngest daughter of Don Antonio N—, the grandee of
the place, and the head of the first family in California. Qur steward
was ashore three days, making pastry and cake, and some of the
best of our stores were sent off with him. On the day appointed for
the wedding, we took the captain ashore in the gig, and had orders
to come for him at night, with leave to go up t© the l}ouse and
see the fandango. Returning on board, we found preparations Di
ing for a salute. Our guns were loaded and run out, men appointed

